The human voice
is a marvelous instrument,
capable of great variety.
When we vary our
volume, pitch, and pace
so as to convey ideas clearly
and stir emotion,
we’re using modulation.
Why is modulation
important when speaking?
For the same reason it’s important
when playing a musical instrument.
How would music
sound without modulation?
It’s not very appealing, is it?
Now let’s vary the volume.
Let’s also add changes in pace.
Finally, let’s add variations in pitch.
When the musician varied the volume,
pace, and pitch,
the result was something
pleasurable to listen to.
To illustrate the importance
of doing this when we speak,
let’s listen as a speaker
presents fine information
but with little modulation.
After 40 years
of wandering in the wilderness,
the Israelites are
on the verge of a momentous change.
They’re about to take possession
of the Promised Land.
Tents will be replaced by houses.
Manna will be replaced
by meat and vegetables.
At last, they will be able to worship Jehovah
as a free and spiritually clean people.
Still, challenges awaited them.
What would Moses say shortly before his death
to encourage and prepare them?
Let’s find out
by reading Deuteronomy 31:7, 8.
We stopped the speaker
before he read the scripture
and finished making the point
because he was difficult to listen to.
Let’s watch him try again, but this time,
he varies his volume,
pitch, and pace.
After 40 years
of wandering in the wilderness,
the Israelites are
on the verge of a momentous change.
They’re about to take possession
of the Promised Land.
Tents will be replaced by houses.
Manna will be replaced
by meat and vegetables.
At last, they’ll be able to worship Jehovah
as a free and spiritually clean people.
Still, challenges awaited them.
But what would Moses say
shortly before his death
to encourage and prepare them?
Let’s find out
by reading Deuteronomy 31:7, 8:
“Moses then called Joshua and said to him
“before the eyes of all Israel:
“‘Be courageous and strong,
“‘for you are the one
who will bring this people
“‘into the land that Jehovah swore
“‘to their forefathers to give to them,
“‘and you will give it
to them as an inheritance.
“‘Jehovah is the one marching before you,
“‘and he will continue with you.
“‘He will neither desert you nor abandon you.
Do not be afraid or be terrified.’”
It was much better, wasn’t it?
Did you notice how
the speaker built anticipation
for the scripture
by lowering his volume as he asked:
“What would Moses say
shortly before his death
to encourage and prepare them?”
Then he increased his volume
when reading Moses’ exhortation.
If we strive to read
and speak with modulation,
we’ll convey the ideas more clearly
and stir the emotion of our listeners.